# Detecting Alzheimer’s Severity using Convolution Neural Networks

This project will explore how different characteristics of brain scans are used to detect the severity of Alzheimer's in individuals.

## Contents
This repository contains instructions on obtaining and cleaning the data used, code that completes and creates time series visualizations, and licensing and reference information.

# Software and Platform

This projected was completed using the python programming language. For Python, we used VS Code and Google Colab. The platform used was Mac. If using VS Code to reproduce results, a Python kernel will need to be used in order to use Python and import the packages used in the scripts.

# Documentation

Contents of this repository include:

- README.md: a file containing all information about the files within the repository
- LICENSE: a file citing the terms under which this repository may be used and cited
- DATA folder: a folder containing the following 3 files
  - Data Appendix: a file describing the final dataset and its variables
  - Data Acquisition.pdf: a pdf file detailing how to obtain and clean the data
  - Dataset: a link leading to the site where we got our data
- OUTPUT folder: a folder with all of the outputs generated by this project
- SCRIPTS folder:
  - **update as necessary**
 
# Reproducing Results

In order to reproduce the results of this study, first read and follow the instructions in the Data Acquisition pdf located in the DATA folder. Output the resulting dataset onto your device. Then read the resulting dataset into the **update** file and run the file to complete the analysis

# References

[1] QuinnRadich, “Prepare your PyTorch ML model for classification,” Microsoft.com, Jun. 28, 2024. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/ai/windows-ml/tutorials/pytorch-data (accessed Nov. 15, 2024).
‌
[2] QuinnRadich, “Use PyTorch to train your image classification model,” learn.microsoft.com. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/ai/windows-ml/tutorials/pytorch-train-model (accessed Nov. 15, 2024).

[3] alzheimer detection Classification Dataset by alzheimer, “alzheimer detection Classification Dataset by alzheimer,” Roboflow, 2024. https://universe.roboflow.com/alzheimer-h49wu/alzheimer-detection-ra7oh (accessed Nov. 15, 2024).
‌
[4] “resnet50 — Torchvision main documentation,” Pytorch.org, 2023. https://pytorch.org/vision/main/models/generated/torchvision.models.resnet50.html#torchvision.models.resnet50 (accessed Nov. 17, 2024).
